# Facial-Expression-Recognition-
With the rapid advancement of technology and automation, the demand for effective human-computer interaction has grown significantly. Facial Expression Recognition (FER) plays a vital role in enabling machines to understand human emotions and intensions through facial expressions [1]. Some key applications of FER include human-computer interaction, security and surveillance, robotics and entertainment such as virtual avatars. Due to advancement in technologies the need of FER has increased in recent years. With the development of Deep Learning, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are introduced to FER for improving the robustness of the network. Al Shabi, Cheah & Othmani [2] used CNN feature i.e. SHIFT descriptors to increase the performance on small data. J Cao, C Hu, L Kong, Z Yu [3] the paper proposes an expression recognition method based on Multi-level Multi-model Fusion Deep Convolutional Neural Network. M Al-Shabi, Wooi Ping Cheah, Tee Connie [5] both Dense SIFT and regular SIFT are studied and compared when merged with CNN features to increase the performance on small data.
Attention is a mechanism in deep learning that helps a model focus on the most important parts of the input data like furrowed eyebrows (anger) or smile lines (happiness). Without attention, a model might treat all facial features equally, which can reduce its ability to detect specific expressions accurately.  Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) features are used to increase the performance on small data. CBAM helps the network to learn automatically, "what to focus on" (channel attention) and "where to focus" (spatial attention). When added to our base model, ResNet50, CBAM refines the feature maps by emphasizing important features and suppressing less useful ones. By integrating attention into our model, we make it smarter at identifying expressions, even in complex conditions like occlusions, lighting changes, or subtle emotions.
